Building a todo list with rails (#54)
Codecademy/ugc: content/deyemiobaa/building-a-todolist-with-rails.md

After running the command, you’ll see a bunch of files and folders being created. This is the default structure of a Rails app. You can read more about it [here](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html#creating-the-blog-application).

To get our app running, we need to make sure it is connected to a database. The database config lives in the `config/database.yml` file. There we can see the provided database name and some other info. This database doesn't exist yet and needs to be created. For most people, you need to supply your PostgreSQL username and password that was set during installation to this file. The default username is `postgres` and this applies to most Linux distros.

Most times we would use an env file to manage this but we can keep it there for the scope of this project.

```yml
...
default: &default
  adapter: postgresql
  encoding: unicode
  username: postgres
  password: yourpassword
...
```

> To create the database, run `rails db:create`.

Author: Both commands work for the same purpose. `rake db:create` is the legacy way of creating a new database. 

`rails db:create` is the more preferred way because it uses the Rails application framework and the underlying database adapter to create the database instead of the Rake task runner

> To create the database, run `rails db:create`.

Reviewer: I'm using Rails 7.0.4.2 on Ubuntu and `rails db:create`  didn't work. It just gave me the rails help menu. Is there some reason it wouldn't work? Should I be in a particular directory?

 I'm not a rails expert and I'm just trying to follow along with the tutorial.

> To create the database, run `rails db:create`.

Author: Please make sure your PostgreSQL service is running before trying that command.

`sudo service postgresql start`

> To create the database, run `rails db:create`.

Reviewer: That seems to work. That detail should be in the article.

Now run `rails s` to start the server. If everything went well, you should see a url to visit (`http://127.0.0.1:3000/`) in your terminal. Open that url in your browser and you should see the default Rails page.

> Since we have TailwindCSS in our project, starting our server requires an additional step. We need to run `rails tailwindcss:watch` in a separate terminal window. This will compile our tailwind styles and make them available to our app.

Reviewer: `rails tailwindcss:watch` in a new terminal window does not do anything but spawn the rails help menu.

Author: That's a strange behaviour. May I ask what OS you're running this project on?

that command should produce something like this
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/55185309/224572813-d35244e5-740c-419d-bf0c-e8aaaf56ee6f.png)

Author: Can you try `bin/rails tailwindcss:watch`?

Reviewer: Do I need to cd to the app directory to do this? If so, it should be mentioned in the tutorial.

Reviewer: I tried this in the app directory and I get the following error:
```
rails aborted!
Don't know how to build task 'tailwindcss:watch' (See the list of available tasks with `rails --tasks`)

(See full trace by running task with --trace)
```

Author: The command should be run in the root of the project directory. Also, It seems some dependencies didn't install correctly. Can you run `bundle update` and then try again?

Reviewer: I tried this and still get the same error.

> Rails ties both the server and the tailwind compiler together into a single command. To run both at the same time, run `bin/dev`.

Reviewer: `bin\dev` does not work.

Author: What error does it give? If you're on windows you might get an error. A potential solution is to edit the Procfile.dev file.

Its contents look like this
```
web: bin/rails server -p 3000
css: bin/rails tailwindcss:watch
```

Update it to this.
```
web: rails s
css: rails tailwindcss:watch
```

We might just stick to running the commands in two terminals in none works.

Reviewer: I'm running in Ubuntu. The error I get is: `bin/dev: 8: exec: foreman: not found`

Author: foreman should come bundled with ruby by default. Before you do run this `gem install foreman`. Run `bundle update` from the previous command and see if you're able to proceed.

Also it'll be helpful if I can have access to your source code for closer inspection

Reviewer: ok installing foreman allowed `bin/dev` to work.

Author: So this has been reported as an [issue](https://github.com/rails/tailwindcss-rails#error-cannot-find-the-tailwindcss-executable-for-supported-platform) with the gems' support for some platforms.

I'll update the article with a manual setup for Tailwind.

```ruby
class TodosController < ApplicationController
  def index
  end
end
```

This is a simple controller method that will render the index view when a request is made to the `/todos` route. The index view is the default view for a controller. Rails will look for a view with the same name as the controller method. In this case, it will look for a view named `index.html.erb` in the `app/views/todos` folder.

To create this view, create a new file named `index.html.erb` in the `app/views/todos` folder. Add the following code to the file.

```html
<h1>Hello World</h1>
```

Then add the following code to the `config/routes.rb` file.

```ruby
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  get '/todos', to: 'todos#index'
end
```

This will create a route that maps the `/todos` url to the `todos#index` controller method. The `get` method specifies the HTTP verb to use. The `to` option specifies the controller and method to use. The `todos#index` syntax is a shorthand for `controller: 'todos', action: 'index'`.

> Now run `rails s` or `bin/dev` to start the server, and visit `http://localhost:3000/todos` in your browser. You should see the 'Hello World' message.

Reviewer: I think we're missing a step here. I do this and get the following error:
```
Migrations are pending. To resolve this issue, run:
bin/rails db:migrate RAILS_ENV=development
You have one pending migration:
20230312130924_create_todos.rb
```
Running the pending migrations fixed the issue, but that should be part of this article before we get to this point.

Also `bin/dev` still doesn't work at this point.

Author: Fixed!

## Using ERB to write logic and display content in HTML.

ERB stands for Embedded Ruby. It is a templating system that allows us to write ruby code within HTML files. This is useful because it allows us to write logic and display content in HTML. We can also use it to write HTML in a more concise way. 
This aspect of Rails is the V in MVC. The view layer is responsible for displaying the content to the user. It is the part of the application that handles the presentation logic. The view layer interacts with the controller to get the data it needs to display. Without controllers, views would not be able to display any data.

On our webpage, we would have a simple form for creating new todo items, and a table to list all the todo items. We'll use ERB to write the logic for this.

> Open the `app/views/todos/index.html.erb` file and add the following code.

Reviewer: Should it be, "replace the content with the following"? Otherwise we still have a "Hello World" header.

Author: Yes, I'll fix that.

  <div class="my-5">
    <%= form.label :description %>
    <%= form.text_field :description, placeholder: "new todo", class: "block shadow rounded-md border border-gray-200 outline-none px-3 py-2 mt-2 w-2/4" %>
  </div>

  <div class="inline">
    <%= form.submit class: "rounded-lg py-3 px-5 bg-blue-600 text-white inline-block font-medium cursor-pointer" %>
  </div>
<% end %>
```

This code will render a form with a text field and a submit button. The `form_with` method is a helper method that creates a form for a given model. The `model` option specifies the model to use. The `class` option specifies the css class to use for the form. The `do |form|` block specifies the content of the form. The `form.label` method creates a label for the text field. The `form.text_field` method creates a text field for the form. The `form.submit` method creates a submit button for the form.

To view this on our webpage, we need to create a new instance of the Todo model in the controller. Open the `app/controllers/todos_controller.rb` file and replace what you have with the following code.

```ruby
class TodosController < ApplicationController
  def index
    @todo = Todo.new
  end
end
```

> If you started your server with `Rails s`, restart it with `bin/dev` to see the changes on `http://localhost:3000/todos`.

Reviewer: I had to use `rails s` again because `bin/dev` doesn't work. Also, I do not believe the css class does anything because of my earlier issues. I am also not seeing the submit button. When I view source on the web page, the `<div class="inline">` is there, but the `<div>` is empty.

## Creating a new todo item

Now that we have our routes setup, we need add the corresponding method in our controller with some logic to handle the form submission. Open the `app/controllers/todos_controller.rb` file and replace what you have with the following code.

```ruby
class TodosController < ApplicationController
  def index
    @todo = Todo.new
  end

  def create
    @todo = Todo.create(description: params[:todo][:description])
    if @todo.valid?
      render :index
    else
      render :index
    end
  end
end
```

The `create` method creates a new instance of the Todo model and saves it to the database. The `description` attribute is set to the value of the `description` field in the form. The `params` method returns a hash of the form data. The hash looks like this.

```ruby
{
  todo: {
    description: "new todo"
  }
}
```

The `params[:todo][:description]` syntax gets the value of the hash. The `valid?` method checks if the model is valid. If the model is valid it renders the `index` view and show the list of todos. If the model is not valid, it just renders the `index` view. In a real application, we would want to display the errors to the user.

> You can submit the form multiple time to have enough data to test the table. The table will be empty for now. We'll add the table in the next section.

Reviewer: At this point I can't start the server. It gives me an error on the routes.rb file. It is giving a syntax error on the square bracket of `resources :todos, only [:index, :create]`

I'm going to stop here for now since I can no longer follow along with the tutorial. I'll continue when the prior issues have been dealt with.

Author: You're missing a colon after `only`. Should be `only:`

Reviewer: That fixed it.

---
Title: "Bulding a ToDo List with Ruby on Rails"
Description: "Learn how to build a ToDo List with Ruby on Rails"
DatePublished: "2022-04-28"
Categories:
  - "computer-science"
  - "web-development"
Tags:
  - "Ruby on Rails"
  - "Ruby"
  - "PostgreSQL"
  - "Database"
CatalogContent:
  - "learn-ruby"
  - "learn-rails"
---

_**Prerequisites:** Ruby, Ruby on Rails, PostgreSQL_

_**Versions:** Ruby 3.2.0, Ruby on Rails 7.0.4, PostgreSQL 15_

## Introduction

> This article is an introduction to building a full-stack app using Ruby on Rails. For this article, we are building a To-do list.
> 
> I was inspired to write this article while learning Ruby on Rails. I often got lost looking for information on the official Rails guide and I want to help you reduce the time it’ll take you to get started with building your own Rails app.
> 
> The article is beginner friendly, and I hope it helps you learn something new.

Reviewer 2: [Nitpick] Hmmm... 🤔, there seems to be some ambiguity here. I think it would be beneficial to start your article with the paragraph where you describe your experience. It'll help users relate to you more and make the article less..."technical"(This is the best word I could think of at the moment. Forgive me lol! 😆)?  
  
```suggestion
This article is an introduction to building a full-stack app using Ruby on Rails. For this article, we are building a To-do list.

I was inspired to write this article while learning Ruby on Rails. I often got lost looking for information on the official Rails guide and I want to help you reduce the time it’ll take you to get started with building your own Rails app.

The article is beginner friendly, and I hope it helps you learn something new.
```

> ## What I’ll talk about:
> 
> 1. Setting up a new Rails app.
> 2. Understanding the MVC design pattern.
> 3. Creating a new schema in your local database using migrations.
> 4. Handling requests within controller methods.
> 5. Using ERB to write logic and display content in HTML.
> 6. Understanding the Rails routing system.
> 

Reviewer 2: [Nitpick] Maybe you can list these are the main points of your article(e.g., "This article will...").  
```suggestion
## What I’ll talk about:

1. Setting up a new Rails app.
2. Understanding the MVC design pattern.
3. Creating a new schema in your local database using migrations.
4. Handling requests within controller methods.
5. Using ERB to write logic and display content in HTML.
6. Understanding the Rails routing system.

```

1. Don’t Repeat Yourself: The [DRY principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself) is very common in software development. The idea is that developers should spend less time writing code by avoiding repetition. This is done by making sure every element of your code can stand alone and be called anywhere, and changes to that element don't have to be repeated across several points.
2. Convention over Configuration: This is one of Rails’ superpowers. Rails has a set of guidelines and format for doing things. From naming methods, classes, files, and building a database schema. These conventions help to keep the whole application in sync and help you spend less time debugging errors that result from the wrong configuration.

## Setting up your dev environment: Installing Ruby, Rails, and PostgreSQL

[GoRails](https://goRails.com/) Has in-depth guides on setting up Rails on various machines. Here's a link to all of them. Since we're using PostgreSQL for this project, skip any step that mentions setting up SQLite or MySQL.

- [For Ubuntu](https://goRails.com/setup/ubuntu/22.04)
- [Mac OS](https://goRails.com/setup/macos/13-ventura)

> - [For Windows](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/ruby-on-Rails-on-windows-is-not-just-possible-its-fabulous-using-wsl2-and-vs-code)

Reviewer 3: Not sure if we should be linking to outside sources when we have: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/ruby/ruby-on-rails

And also the official documentation sites which cover the installation process:
- https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html#creating-a-new-rails-project-installing-rails
-

Reviewer 3: @deyemiobaa We may also need to mention postgresql installation since we're using it below

Author: @yangc95 Those external resources go into more detail on how to install Rails with PostgreSQL. They are well-known resources and are regularly updated to support several operating systems.

I didn't mention PostgreSQL installation because the resources I linked already discussed them.

## Setting up a new Rails app

To create a new Rails app, simply open up your terminal, navigate to where you want this app to stay, and run the following commands.

```bash
rails new todolist -d postgresql

cd todolist/

bundle add tailwindcss-rails

rails tailwindcss:install
```

> The commands after the app name (todolist) are optional. The `-d postgresql` flag tells rails to use postgreSQL as the database for this app. 
> `bundle add tailwindcss-rails` adds tailwindcss to our Gemfile. Tailwind is a utility-first CSS framework and a great tool to help you build a responsive and beautiful UI. 
> `rails tailwindcss:install` installs tailwindcss in our app and sets up a Procfile for running our app in development.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The commands after the app name (**todolist**) are optional. The `-d postgresql` flag tells rails to use PostgreSQL as the database for this app.

`bundle add tailwindcss-rails` adds tailwindcss to our Gemfile. Tailwind is a utility-first CSS framework and a great tool to help you build a responsive and beautiful UI.

`rails tailwindcss:install` installs tailwindcss in our app and sets up a Procfile for running our app in development.
```

After running these commands, you’ll see a bunch of files and folders created for us. This is the default structure of a rails app. You can read more about it [here](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html#creating-the-blog-application).

To get our app running, we need to make sure it is connected to a database. The database config lives in the `config/database.yml` file. There we can see the provided database name and some other info. This database doesn't exist yet and needs to be created. For most people, you need to supply your PostgreSQL username and password that was set during installation to this file. The default username is `postgres` and this applies to most Linux distros.

> Most times we would use an env file to manage this but we can keep it there for the scope of this project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Most times we would use a **.env** file to manage this but we can keep it there for the scope of this project.
```

Rails ties both the server and the tailwind compiler together into a single command. To run both at the same time, run `bin/dev`.

## Understanding the MVC design pattern

MVC stands for Model, View, Controller. It is a design pattern that helps to organize the code in a Rails app. It is a common pattern in web development and is used in many other frameworks. The MVC pattern is used to separate the code into three different layers. Each layer has a specific responsibility and is responsible for handling a specific part of the app. We'll look at the three layers closely as we build our app.

## Creating a new schema in the local database using migrations.

Migrations help us build/alter our database schema in a consistent way. It uses the Ruby DSL (domain-specific language), and the dedicated rails ORM (Object-relational mapping) called Active Record so we don't have to write any SQL by hand.

Our app requires a table and a column to store our todo items. We'll call that column `description`.
To create this table with the column, we'll run `rails generate model Todo description`

There are a few things to unpack about this:

> 1. `rails generate`: compulsory prefix for generating various resources like models, controllers, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. `rails generate`: Compulsory prefix for generating various resources like models, controllers, etc.
```

2. `model`: This tells rails that we intend to create a model. Creating a model will create a migration by default. Models represent the M in MVC and are part of the application that handles the business logic. How data is represented, accessed, and modified can be specified in the model. The model interacts with the database to carry out several operations.
3. `Todo`: This is the name of the model we want to create. Rails will automatically pluralize this to create a table named `todos`.
4. `description`: This is the column name we want our table to have. Columns are usually created with a default string datatype. We could do `clicks:integer` to add a column with an integer datatype instead.

After running this command, you'll see a new file in the `db/migrate` folder. This file contains the migration code that will be used to create the table and the column in our database. The migration file name is in the format `yyyymmddhhmmss_create_todos.rb`. The first part of the file name is the timestamp of when the migration was created. This is used to keep track of the order in which migrations were created. The second part is the name is the kind of migration we want to create.

> Run `rails db:migrate` to apply the schema to our local database.

Reviewer 3: To apply the schema to our local database, we'll run:

```shell
rails db:migrate
```

A model file will also be created in the `app/models` folder. This file contains the model class and is used to define the model's attributes and relationships with other models.

## Handling requests within controller methods.

Controllers are responsible for handling requests and sending responses. They are the middleman between the user and the model. They receive requests from the user and send responses back to the user. They also interact with the model to get the data it needs to perform its operations.

> Let's create a controller for our todo items. Run `rails generate controller todos`. This will create a controller file in the `app/controllers` folder. It will also create a folder named `todos` in the `app/views` folder. This folder will contain all the views for our todo items.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's create a controller for our todo items. In the terminal, run:

```shell
rails generate controller todos
```

This will create a controller file in the `app/controllers` folder. It will also create a folder named `todos` in the `app/views` folder. This folder will contain all the views for our todo items.
```

Reviewer 3: @deyemiobaa For the main commands that will be run in the terminal, can we place them into shell blocks? This will make it easier to differentiate them from the rest of the bodies of explanatory text

> To display a simple 'Hello World' message, we'll create a new method in the todos controller, and specify routes for it. Open the `app/controllers/todos_controller.rb` file and add the following code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To display a simple `'Hello World'` message, we'll create a new method in the todos controller, and specify routes for it. Open the `app/controllers/todos_controller.rb` file and add the following code.
```

```ruby
class TodosController < ApplicationController
  def index
  end
end
```

This is a simple controller method that will render the index view when a request is made to the `/todos` route. The index view is the default view for a controller. Rails will look for a view with the same name as the controller method. In this case, it will look for a view named `index.html.erb` in the `app/views/todos` folder.

To create this view, create a new file named `index.html.erb` in the `app/views/todos` folder. Add the following code to the file.

```html
<h1>Hello World</h1>
```

Then add the following code to the `config/routes.rb` file.

```ruby
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  get '/todos', to: 'todos#index'
end
```

> This will create a route that maps the `/todos` url to the `todos#index` controller method. The `get` method specifies the HTTP verb to use. The `to` option specifies the controller and method to use. The `todos#index` syntax is a shorthand for `controller: 'todos', action: 'index'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a route that maps the `/todos` URL to the `todos#index` controller method. The `get` method specifies the HTTP verb to use. The `to` option specifies the controller and method to use. The `todos#index` syntax is a shorthand for `controller: 'todos', action: 'index'`.
```

Now run `rails s` or `bin/dev` to start the server, and visit `http://localhost:3000/todos` in your browser. You should see the '**Hello World**' message.

## Using ERB to write logic and display content in HTML.

ERB stands for Embedded Ruby. It is a templating system that allows us to write ruby code within HTML files. This is useful because it allows us to write logic and display content in HTML. We can also use it to write HTML in a more concise way. 
This aspect of Rails is the V in MVC. The view layer is responsible for displaying the content to the user. It is the part of the application that handles the presentation logic. The view layer interacts with the controller to get the data it needs to display. Without controllers, views would not be able to display any data.

> On our webpage, we would have a simple form for creating new todo items, and a table to list all the todo items. We'll use ERB to write the logic for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On our webpage, we want to have a simple form for creating new todo items, and a table to list all the todo items. We'll use ERB to write the logic for this.
```

Open the `app/views/todos/index.html.erb` file and replace its contents with the following code.

```erb
<h1 class="text-2xl">Todo List</h1>

<%= form_with(model: Todo.new, class: "my-10") do |form| %>
  <div class="my-5">
    <%= form.label :description %>
    <%= form.text_field :description, placeholder: "new todo", class: "block shadow rounded-md border border-gray-200 outline-none px-3 py-2 mt-2 w-2/4" %>
  </div>

  <div class="inline">
    <%= form.submit class: "rounded-lg py-3 px-5 bg-blue-600 text-white inline-block font-medium cursor-pointer" %>
  </div>
<% end %>
```

This code will render a form with a text field and a submit button. The `form_with` method is a helper method that creates a form for a given model. The `model` option specifies the model we are creating a record for.

> The `class` option specifies the css class to use for the form. The `do |form|` block specifies the content of the form. The `form.label` method creates a label for the text field. The `form.text_field` method creates a text field for the form. The `form.submit` method creates a submit button for the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `class` option specifies the CSS class to use for the form. The `do |form|` block specifies the content of the form. The `form.label` method creates a label for the text field. The `form.text_field` method creates a text field for the form. The `form.submit` method creates a submit button for the form.
```

To view this on our webpage. Run `rails s` or `bin/dev` to start the server, and visit `http://localhost:3000/todos` in your browser. You should see the form we just created.

We can't create todo items with this form yet. We need to add a route to handle the form submission. Open the `config/routes.rb` file and replace what you have with the following code.

```ruby
Rails.application.routes.draw do

>   resources :todos, only: [:index, :create]

Reviewer 3: Explain that the resources here gives access to all controller methods, and that the `only:` is used to specify certain ones we are using

end
```

## Understanding the Rails routing system

> The `resources` method in the code block above creates a set of routes for a given resource. The `only` option specifies the controller methods to create routes for. In our case, we only want to create routes for the `index` and `create` methods. The `resources` method creates the following routes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `resources` method in the code block above creates a set of routes for a given resource. The `only` option specifies the controller methods to create routes for. In our case, we only want to create routes for the `index` and `create` methods. The `resources` method creates the following routes:
```

## Displaying the list of todos

In our view, we need to add a table to display the list of todos. Open the `app/views/todos/index.html.erb` file and append the following code to it.

```erb
...
<table class="w-3/5 mt-10 border-separate table-auto text-slate-500">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th class="p-3 text-sm font-semibold text-left text-gray-700 bg-gray-200">ID</th>
      <th class="p-3 text-sm font-semibold text-left text-gray-700 bg-gray-200">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <% @todos.each do |todo| %>
      <tr>
        <td class="px-3 py-4 text-sm font-normal text-left text-gray-600 bg-gray-50">
          <%= todo.id %>
        </td>
        <td class="px-3 py-4 text-sm font-normal text-left text-gray-600 bg-gray-50">
          <%= todo.description %>
        </td>
      </tr>
    <% end %>
  </tbody>
</table>
```

This code will render a table with the list of todos. The `@todos` variable is an array of Todo models. The `each` method iterates over the array and renders a row for each todo. The `todo.id` and `todo.description` syntax gets the id and description of the todo.

> In order to display the list of todos, we need to get the list of todos from the database. Open the `app/controllers/todos_controller.rb` and add the following code to the `index` method.

Reviewer 3: In the previous section, we started with the controller and then went on to the view. Can we follow this same format for the entirety of the tutorial?

          <%= todo.id %>
        </td>
        <td class="px-3 py-4 text-sm font-normal text-left text-gray-600 bg-gray-50">
          <%= todo.description %>
        </td>
        <td class="px-3 py-4 text-sm font-normal text-left text-red-600 underline break-words bg-light">
          <%= button_to "Delete", todo_path(todo), method: :delete %>
        </td>
      </tr>
    <% end %>
  </tbody>
```

The `button_to` method creates a form with a button. The `method: :delete` option specifies that the form should be submitted using the `DELETE` HTTP verb. The `todo_path(todo)` syntax generates the path for the todo. The `todo_path` method takes the todo model as an argument.

Next, we need to add a route to handle the delete request. Open the `config/routes.rb` file and update the todos resource with the following code.

```ruby
...
  resources :todos, only: [:index, :create, :destroy]
```

The `destroy` method will handle the delete request. 

Open the `app/controllers/todos_controller.rb` file and add the following code to create `destroy` method.

```ruby
...
  def destroy
    @todo = Todo.find(params[:id])
    if @todo.destroy
      redirect_to todos_path
    end
  end
```

> The `Todo.find` method finds a todo by the id. Every todo gets a unique id when it's created. The `destroy` method deletes the todo from the database. The `render :index` method renders the `index` view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Todo.find` method finds a todo by the id. Every todo gets a unique id when it's created. The `destroy` method deletes the todo from the database.
```
There's no `render :index` in the code.

        </td>
      </tr>
    <% end %>
  </tbody>
```

The `button_to` method creates a form with a button. The `method: :delete` option specifies that the form should be submitted using the `DELETE` HTTP verb. The `todo_path(todo)` syntax generates the path for the todo. The `todo_path` method takes the todo model as an argument.

Next, we need to add a route to handle the delete request. Open the `config/routes.rb` file and update the todos resource with the following code.

```ruby
...
  resources :todos, only: [:index, :create, :destroy]
```

The `destroy` method will handle the delete request. 

Open the `app/controllers/todos_controller.rb` file and add the following code to create `destroy` method.

```ruby
...
  def destroy
    @todo = Todo.find(params[:id])
    @todo.destroy
    render :index
  end
```

The `Todo.find` method finds a todo by the id. Every todo gets a unique id when it's created. The `destroy` method deletes the todo from the database. The `render :index` method renders the `index` view.

Now, you should be able to delete a todo item from the list.

That is all. We’ve built a working todo list with READ, CREATE and DESTROY methods.

> You can find the working code on this [Github repo](https://github.com/deyemiobaa/Rails_todolist).

Reviewer: I've gotten through the bulk of the tutorial and having an error pop up on the last little bit. When I click on the "Delete" button for a todo, I'm getting an error:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/86081858/234677721-8b86a4ae-3ab4-4565-a63d-e36be3f57345.png)

It seems to be on rendering the page after a delete, as the delete itself works fine. Refreshing gets rid of the error.

It also happens when I submit a todo again. (It wasn't happening when I added a bunch of todos before making the table and the delete buttons.)

        </td>
      </tr>
    <% end %>
  </tbody>
```

The `button_to` method creates a form with a button. The `method: :delete` option specifies that the form should be submitted using the `DELETE` HTTP verb. The `todo_path(todo)` syntax generates the path for the todo. The `todo_path` method takes the todo model as an argument.

Next, we need to add a route to handle the delete request. Open the `config/routes.rb` file and update the todos resource with the following code.

```ruby
...
  resources :todos, only: [:index, :create, :destroy]
```

The `destroy` method will handle the delete request. 

Open the `app/controllers/todos_controller.rb` file and add the following code to create `destroy` method.

```ruby
...
  def destroy
    @todo = Todo.find(params[:id])
    @todo.destroy
    render :index
  end
```

The `Todo.find` method finds a todo by the id. Every todo gets a unique id when it's created. The `destroy` method deletes the todo from the database. The `render :index` method renders the `index` view.

Now, you should be able to delete a todo item from the list.

That is all. We’ve built a working todolist with READ, CREATE and DESTROY methods.

> You can find the working code on this [Github repo](https://github.com/deyemiobaa/rails_todolist).

Reviewer 4: Make sure this link is correct, currently it's broken.

## Creating a new todo item

Now that we have our routes setup, we need add the corresponding method in our controller with some logic to handle the form submission. Open the `app/controllers/todos_controller.rb` file and replace what you have with the following code.

```ruby
class TodosController < ApplicationController
  def index
    @todo = Todo.new
  end

  def create
    @todo = Todo.create(description: params[:todo][:description])
    if @todo.valid?
      render :index
    else
      render :index
    end
  end
end
```

The `create` method creates a new instance of the Todo model and saves it to the database. The `description` attribute is set to the value of the `description` field in the form. The `params` method returns a hash of the form data. The hash looks like this.

```ruby
{
  todo: {
    description: "new todo"
  }
}
```

The `params[:todo][:description]` syntax gets the value of the hash. The `valid?` method checks if the model is valid. If the model is valid it renders the `index` view and show the list of todos. If the model is not valid, it just renders the `index` view. In a real application, we would want to display the errors to the user.

> You can submit the form multiple time to have enough data to test the table. The table will be empty for now. We'll add the table in the next section.

Reviewer: Everything is going well until this point. When I try and submit a todo, I get an error:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/86081858/232883131-8601739e-5aa6-4379-bac9-afcd4ec61d8b.png)

Is it something obvious I'm missing?

Author: @SSwiniarski You didn't miss anything. There has been a change in the Rails API since I wrote this. I've updated the article and you can proceed now.

      <th class="p-3 text-sm font-semibold text-left text-gray-700 bg-gray-200">Action</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  
  <tbody>
    <% @todos.each do |todo| %>
      <tr>
        <td class="px-3 py-4 text-sm font-normal text-left text-gray-600 bg-gray-50">
          <%= todo.id %>
        </td>
        <td class="px-3 py-4 text-sm font-normal text-left text-gray-600 bg-gray-50">
          <%= todo.description %>
        </td>
        <td class="px-3 py-4 text-sm font-normal text-left text-red-600 underline break-words bg-light">
          <%= button_to "Delete", todo_path(todo), method: :delete %>
        </td>
      </tr>
    <% end %>
  </tbody>
```

The `button_to` method creates a form with a button. The `method: :delete` option specifies that the form should be submitted using the `DELETE` HTTP verb. The `todo_path(todo)` syntax generates the path for the todo. The `todo_path` method takes the todo model as an argument.

Finally, we need to add a route to handle the delete request. Open the `config/routes.rb` file and update the todos resource with the following code.

```ruby
...
  resources :todos, only: [:index, :create, :destroy]

> ```

Reviewer 3: Can we move the route before the controller above?
